Start Building on Polygon zkEVM

Polygon zkEVM is the first zero-knowledge scaling solution that is fully equivalent to an EVM. All existing smart contracts, developer toolings and wallets work seamlessly. Polygon zkEVM harnesses the power of zero-knowledge proofs in order to reduce transaction costs and massively increase throughput, all while inheriting the security of Ethereum.

Building dApps on zkEVM is completely similar to Ethereum. Simply switch to the zkEVM RPC and start building on a network with much higher throughput and lower fees. Polygon zkEVM provides a complete EVM-like experience for Developers and Users alike. So you do not need special toolings or new wallets for building or interacting with zkEVM.
Reminder

You don't need special toolings or Wallets to build or interact with Polygon zkEVM.

Developers will be able to deploy their existing contracts to the zkEVM, and Users can deposit assets from Ethereum and transact off-chain. These transactions are grouped into batches with zero-knowledge proof attesting to the validity of each transaction.
Connecting to zkEVM

In order to add the Polygon zkEVM network to your wallet, you will need to enter the following details:

    Network Name: Polygon zkEVM Testnet
    RPC URL: https://rpc.public.zkevm-test.net
    Chain ID: 1442
    Currency Symbol: ETH
    Block Explorer URL: https://explorer.public.zkevm-test.net

Bridge Assets to zkEVM

For moving assets across chains (L1 ↔ zkEVM), you will need to use the zkEVM Bridge. The bridge interface is available on https://public.zkevm-test.net/. The Bridge API (for developers) is available at https://bridge-api.public.zkevm-test.net/

Check out this video guide on how to bridge tokens from L1 to the zkEVM Testnet:
Deploying Smart Contracts

The development experience on zkEVM is seamless and identical to Ethereum Virtual Machine. Developers on zkEVM can use their existing code and toolings to deploy on zkEVM with much higher throughput and lower fees.

Here is a video tutorial on how to add Polygon zkEVM Testnet to MetaMask and deploy smart contracts:
zkEVM Support

If you need help with anything related to the Polygon zkEVM, you can raise a ticket on the Polygon Support](https://support.polygon.technology/support/tickets/new) portal, and check out the Knowledge base to view the most common queries about the zkEVM. Additionally, you can reach out to the support team available on the #zkevm-support channel on the Polygon Discord server. Instructions for raising a zkEVM testnet support ticket are as follows:

    Join the Polygon Discord server here.
    Accept the invite sent via DM.
    Take the Member role under #roles.
    Navigate to the #zkevm-support channel.

You can now contact the zkEVM support staff with your questions and concerns. We will actively monitor for issues and work to resolve them as soon as possible.
